hey guys josh here for classically you
might know me better as the Gooch and
this is a video review for sin amaura
now before I begin I just want to
mention that all this games beautiful
720p gameplay footage that you're seeing
in this review was recorded using an
Avery media game capture HD now what is
sin temor it's a brand-new shoot-'em-up
that just released exclusively on the
xbox live arcade if you don't know what
a shoot-'em-up is and maybe I should
just call it a schmuck yeah I'm hip to
the newfangled video game terminology
shmups come in a few different varieties
mainly vertical or horizontal but to
borrow some terms from the guys over at
dgr this essentially means the games are
either left rightly or up download
cinema belongs to the left rightly
category it got a minus viewership from
left to right through seven diverse
stages avoiding waves of bullets enemy
ships aggressive alien wildlife
environmental dangers and a whole lot
more co-developed by grasshopper
manufacture and digital reality and
published by Microsoft Studios cinema is
everything you'd expect from a classic
shoot-'em-up the fly you avoid stuff and
you shoot stuff what sets the game apart
both in the story and the gameplay
mechanics arts use of time now whether
you're playing the single-player
campaign or the other modes you always
have at least one time manipulating
ability outside of the story you can
pick an ability that allows you to
rewind time and even through death so if
you make a mistake you activate that
ability and proof you have a fresh start
the other time manipulating ability that
you have to use throughout the game's
story is essentially bullet time within
a shmup you can slow down time which
makes enemies and projectiles much
easier to avoid although keep in mind
these abilities are limited and once
you're out you have to collect more of
that resource to use them again if you
want to pro tip for me save your time
slowing ability until after you're hit
because when you're hit you're going to
lose some of your fire
power enhancement and you really need
those because they're super useful for
fighting bosses and keeping your
multiplier high and getting a multiplier
very quickly although okay one more side
note using your time abilities or your
special weapon cuts off your multiplier
meaning that it starts all over again
and if you play shmups and you strive
for really high scores you know just how
important that multiplier is to topping
the leaderboards which cinema has the
game also has multiple game modes in
addition to the story you can replay
boss fights and stages for better scores
using tons of different weapons and
ships and time manipulating device
combinations guys I'm telling you for
1200 microsoft space points you really
do get quite a bit of game and what a
game I love the gameplay it's a classic
genre that is integral to gaming's rich
history and what they've done here is
they brought that to the next generation
and not just in terms of gameplay but
visuals as well cinema is a gorgeous
game everything is bright and detailed
and really colourful it has a very
distinctive look the overall design of
the world and planes of the devs call it
diesel puck and I love it it's very
imaginative it has a look and feel that
really make the game unique by the time
it's all over with you're going to have
flown through beautiful blue skies in
dark creature and festive caves and even
underwater yeah these planes are awesome
they're like freaking swordfish with
wings that shoot lasers in contrast to
the game's amazing visuals the overall
tone is very dark it's very bleak upon
starting the game you're going to see an
M rating pretty much due to some strong
language
a fact and each level begins with a
monologue that sort of sets the tone and
let you know this is a war-torn world
there are no jokes no one is laughing
wars hell it's very serious people die
they fight some of them want revenge you
can tell a lot of time went into
creating the fiction for sin amaura and
it shows and by no means would you
expect this much backstory to have been
developed for a downloadable
shoot-'em-up that these guys really have
set a new bar for storytelling not only
in shmups but in the downloadable game
space in general now with all this
praise I've not even mentioned the
soundtrack and it's a really terrific
soundtrack it was composed by the sound
director of the Silent Hill and shadows
of the damned games the soundtrack is
nothing short of epic and it really
helps to get you immersed and feel like
you're in a really you feel like you're
in a fractured universe guys I've always
liked shmups and I'll admit I've never
been particularly good at them but I
really can't appreciate them on multiple
levels and for this review I'm telling
you flat out honestly all the gameplay
footage was shot with me playing the
game on the story mode on the normal
difficulty setting and that's what's
great about sin amor I had a fantastic
time playing at that difficulty and in
that mode now if you're a hardcore fan
there is a whole lot there to enjoy you
can crank up the difficulty try the
different modes work on getting higher
up on the leaderboards the game appeals
to both casual and hardcore fans of the
genre the game does so much right I
really don't have anything negative to
say about it the visuals are fantastic
the story is really well written the
controls and mechanics are both super
solid I think a lot of people including
myself weren't sure what to expect from
sin amaura but now that I've played it I
know this game is really special in
games like this don't come around very
often so whether you're a fan of shmups
or a fan of games in general you really
owe it to yourself to play it and even
if you don't buy it promise me you'll
play the demo I mean there are tons of
developers out there making great games
but very and I mean very few developers
can bring innovation to a classic
with great success like sin amor